Theory
------

Direct memory access (DMA) is an ability of a device to access the host's memory directly without the intervention of the CPU or Operating System.

RDMA:
RDMA allows direct memory access from the memory of one computer to the memory of another computer without involving the operating system or CPU.

Protocol Support for RDMA:

Several network protocols supports RDMA now a days. Such as,
- InfiniBand (IB) 
- RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE) 
- Internet Wide Area RDMA Protocol (iWARP)

iWARP:
Internet Wide Area RDMA Protocol network protocol which allows performing RDMA over TCP. This allows using RDMA over standard Ethernet infrastructure. Only the NICs should be compatible and support iWARP (if CPU offloads are used) otherwise, all iWARP stacks can be implemented in SW and loosing most of the RDMA performance advantages.

IB:
InfiniBand (IB) is a new generation network protocol which supports RDMA natively. This is a new network technology, hence it requires NICs and switches that support this technology.

RoCE:
RoCE is a network protocol which allows performing RDMA over Ethernet network. Its lower network headers are Ethernet headers and its upper network headers (including the data) are InfiniBand headers. This allows using RDMA over standard Ethernet infrastructure. 

vSphere with RDMA:
With vSphere 6.5, VMware introduced RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE). RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE) allows remote direct memory access (RDMA) over an Ethernet network. RoCE dramatically accelerates communication between two network endpoints leveraging DMA over converged Ethernet infrastructure.

RoCE is supported in two modes RoCE v1 and RoCE v2.
The RoCE v1 protocol is an Ethernet link layer protocol with Ethertype 0x8915, it means that the frame length limits of the Ethernet protocol apply – 1500 bytes for a regular Ethernet frame and 9000 bytes for a jumbo frame.
The RoCEv2 protocol exists on top of either the UDP/IPv4 or the UDP/IPv6 protocol.[2] The UDP destination port number 4791 has been reserved for RoCE v2. Since RoCEv2 packets are routable the RoCE v2 protocol is sometimes called Routable RoCE or RRoCE.


Using RDMA in vSphere:
vSphere 6.5 and later releases support remote direct memory access (RDMA) communication between virtual machines that have paravirtualized RDMA (PVRDMA) network adapters. The virtual machines must be connected to the same vSphere Distributed Switch.
A PVRDMA network adapter for virtual machine provides remote direct memory access in a virtual environment. Virtual machine uses PVRDMA network adapter to communicate with other virtual machines that has the PVRDMA devices. The transfer of memory is offloaded to the RDMA-capable Host Channel Adapters (HCA).

